docs/explanation/rendering_and_runner.md, before:

# Rendering and Runner

The renderer produces the sbatch script that configures the job environment, and the runner executes the target function inside the job.

## Execution Flow

```mermaid
flowchart TB
    subgraph Client["Client Side"]
        A[cluster.submit] --> B[Serialize args/kwargs]
        B --> C[Renderer: Generate sbatch script]
        C --> D[Upload to cluster]
        D --> E[sbatch submission]
    end

    subgraph Cluster["Cluster Side"]
        E --> F[SLURM schedules job]
        F --> G[Runner starts]
        G --> H[Load args from job_dir]
        H --> I{Task or Workflow?}
        I -->|Task| J[Inject JobContext]
        I -->|Workflow| K[Inject WorkflowContext]
        J --> L[Execute function]
        K --> L
        L --> M[Serialize result.pkl]
        M --> N[Emit callbacks]
    end

    N --> O[Job complete]
```

## Rendering (`slurm.rendering`)

- Combines SBATCH directives, packaging setup commands, and runner invocation.
- Exports cluster metadata such as packaging config for nested workflow execution.
- Writes job artifacts into a per-job directory for logs and results.

## Runner (`slurm.runner`)

- Loads task arguments and keyword arguments from the job directory.
- Injects `JobContext` or `WorkflowContext` when requested.
- Executes the task and serializes results to disk.
- Emits callback events for workflow begin/end and job completion.

## Debugging tips

- Inspect the rendered sbatch script in the job directory when a job fails early.
- Check `slurm_*.out` and `slurm_*.err` for environment setup output.
- Validate that `CONTAINER_IMAGE` and `PY_EXEC` are set in the job output.

Commit message:

refactor: modularize runner.py and improve test infrastructure
Refactored the monolithic runner.py (~1100 lines) into a focused
package with 7 modules:

- argument_loader.py: RunnerArgs dataclass, parsing, loading
- callbacks.py: Callback execution
- context_manager.py: WorkflowContext/JobContext injection
- main.py: Orchestration helpers
- placeholder.py: JobResultPlaceholder resolution
- result_saver.py: Result serialization and metadata
- workflow_builder.py: Cluster setup and WorkflowContext creation

Key improvements:
- Single responsibility per module
- Backwards compatible (from slurm.runner import main still works)
- python -m slurm.runner entry point preserved
- Bandit security annotations incorporated

Additional fixes:
- Replace Linux-only flock with cross-platform mkdir-based locking
  in wheel.py for macOS compatibility
- Change integration test registry port from 5000 to 20002 to avoid
  conflicts with common services
- Fix sys.path handling in tests/conftest.py for runner subprocess
- Fix argument order bug in save_result() call

docs/explanation/rendering_and_runner.md, after:

# Rendering and Runner

The renderer produces the sbatch script that configures the job environment, and the runner executes the target function inside the job.

## Execution Flow

```mermaid
flowchart TB
    subgraph Client["Client Side"]
        A[cluster.submit] --> B[Serialize args/kwargs]
        B --> C[Renderer: Generate sbatch script]
        C --> D[Upload to cluster]
        D --> E[sbatch submission]
    end

    subgraph Cluster["Cluster Side"]
        E --> F[SLURM schedules job]
        F --> G[Runner starts]
        G --> H[Load args from job_dir]
        H --> I{Task or Workflow?}
        I -->|Task| J[Inject JobContext]
        I -->|Workflow| K[Inject WorkflowContext]
        J --> L[Execute function]
        K --> L
        L --> M[Serialize result.pkl]
        M --> N[Emit callbacks]
    end

    N --> O[Job complete]
```

## Rendering (`slurm.rendering`)

- Combines SBATCH directives, packaging setup commands, and runner invocation.
- Exports cluster metadata such as packaging config for nested workflow execution.
- Writes job artifacts into a per-job directory for logs and results.

## Runner (`slurm.runner`)

The runner is organized as a package with focused modules:

| Module             | Responsibility                                             |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| `argument_loader`  | Parse CLI args, restore sys.path, load task arguments      |
| `callbacks`        | Execute callback methods on registered callbacks           |
| `context_manager`  | Detect and inject JobContext/WorkflowContext               |
| `placeholder`      | Resolve JobResultPlaceholder objects to actual values      |
| `result_saver`     | Serialize results and update job metadata                  |
| `workflow_builder` | Create clusters and WorkflowContext for workflow execution |
| `main`             | Orchestration helpers and function loading                 |

Key responsibilities:

- Loads task arguments and keyword arguments from the job directory
- Injects `JobContext` or `WorkflowContext` when requested
- Resolves `JobResultPlaceholder` dependencies from upstream jobs
- Executes the task and serializes results to disk
- Emits callback events for workflow begin/end and job completion

The package maintains backwards compatibility—`from slurm.runner import main` and
`python -m slurm.runner` continue to work as before.

## Debugging tips

- Inspect the rendered sbatch script in the job directory when a job fails early.
- Check `slurm_*.out` and `slurm_*.err` for environment setup output.
- Validate that `CONTAINER_IMAGE` and `PY_EXEC` are set in the job output.
